# Linux

look at any ports that might be listening locally
```
ss -tlpn
```

See currently running processes
```
ps aux
```

Easy wins

cat /etc/passwd to find other users on the machine

```
cat /etc/passwd
```

1) sudo -l  
2) cat /etc/crontab  
3) crontab -l  
4) cat /etc/passwd
5) ls -a ~  
	1) cat .bash_history  
	2) look at any non-standard file.  
6) run linpeas (the vast majority of time, linpeas will allude to the privesc path. same with winpeas and winprivesc)  
	1) yellow text.  
	2) **unknown suid binaries or guid binaries.**  
	3) **interesting writable files owned by me.**  
		1) look at all of these to make sure you're not missing anything.  
	4) kernel exploits. (with all kernel exploits, also try pwnkit.sh)  
		1) do you have gcc on the target? if have kernel exploit cve-2021-3560 and gcc, kernel privesc is likely.  
	5) interesting groups.  
7) google things and append "privilege escalation"  
	1) in quotes and without quotes  
	2) with oscp tagged on  
	3) with privilege escalation tagged on.  
8) netstat -ano | grep LISTEN. look at internal ports. if smtp, any mail directories, etc.?  
	1) google weird ports.  
	2) try to connect to sql server.  
9) Run pspy64 for five minutes. (If doesn't work, run pspy32).  
	1) Run 'timeout 5m ./pspy' to automatically time it out so you don't have to ctrl+c.  
10) Hunt for creds: grep -rHns -iE "password|passwd|pwd|secret|root|cred" --color=always /var | grep -iEv "cache|lib|log|backups" 2> /dev/null  
11) run strings on notice-able non-standard files. grep for creds.


---

We can use cat * to read all files while pipeing the output to grep where we provide the pattern of a string that starts with the word passw and followed by any string such as for example words passwd or password. We can also use the switch -i to ignore case sensitive words like Password. 

```
cat * | grep -i passw*
```

```
sudo -l
```

list out cmds allowed

---

## Look Through SSH History

```
cat ~/.bash_history | sed -n '1,120p'
```

---

# Windows

```
tasklist
```

```
netstat
```